python/intro.md, before:

![python_image](https://www.python.org/static/img/python-logo.png)
# Python for Scientists
Python is a high-level programming language that has rapidly become on of the most popular coding languages in the world. The language was first released to the world in 1991 by Dutch computer mastermind Guido van Rossum, and has steadily grown in use since then. In 2018, Python became the most Google-searched programming language, and is ranked 3rd for overall popularity. This means there are many resources, such as extensive documentation and user write-ups, for new and experienced programmers to utilize.

Python is free to use, broad in functionality, and is strongly rooted in clean syntax. This last point means that it is very readable and promotes clean coding practices. This document is meant as an overview of the basic related tools and knowledge that scientists should have to properly make use of Python.

## Table of contents

- [Resources](#resources)
- [Basics](#basics)
- [Important Packages](#important-packages)
- [Importing APIs and Docs](#importing-apis-and-docs)
- [Object Orient Programming](#object-oriented-programming)
- [Examples](#examples)

## Resources

Given Python's popularity, there are many available resources. Most problems can be answered without delving too deep into the pages of Google. Some good resources to start are  
- [Python's documentation](#https://docs.python.org/3/)
- [StackOverflow](#https://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/python)
- [Learn Python in 10 Minutes](#https://www.stavros.io/tutorials/python/)

----
## Basics
data types
auto casting (vs other languages)

floats/ints
strings
lists
dictionaries
arrays (np)
pandas DataFrames

loops

conditionals

----
## Important Packages
numpy
pandas
matplotlib
netCDF4

----
## Importing APIs and Docs
reading docs on apis
importing apis
using apis

----
## Object Oriented Programming
what is a class?
attributes
methods
inheritance
----
## Higher level stuff
List comprehension

----
## Examples
Copy and read csv
 - plot, modify time series data

Copy and read NetCDF
 - plot, mask, etc

### Sources
https://www.economist.com/graphic-detail/2018/07/26/python-is-becoming-the-worlds-most-popular-coding-language

Commit message:

a little more work on python intro

python/intro.md, after:

![python_image](https://www.python.org/static/img/python-logo.png)
# Python for Scientists
Python is a high-level programming language that has rapidly become on of the most popular coding languages in the world. The language was first released to the world in 1991 by Dutch computer mastermind Guido van Rossum, and has steadily grown in use since then. In 2018, Python became the most Google-searched programming language, and is ranked 3rd for overall popularity. This means there are many resources, such as extensive documentation and user write-ups, for new and experienced programmers to utilize.

Python is free to use, broad in functionality, and is strongly rooted in clean syntax. This last point means that it is very readable and promotes clean coding practices. This document is meant as an overview of the basic related tools and knowledge that scientists should have to properly make use of Python.

## Table of contents

- [Resources](#resources)
- [Basics](#basics)
- [Important Packages](#important-packages)
- [Importing APIs and Docs](#importing-apis-and-docs)
- [Object Orient Programming](#object-oriented-programming)
- [Examples](#examples)

## Resources

Given Python's popularity, there are many available resources. Most problems can be answered without delving too deep into the pages of Google. Some good resources to start are  
- [Python's documentation](#https://docs.python.org/3/)
- [StackOverflow](#https://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/python)
- [Learn Python in 10 Minutes](#https://www.stavros.io/tutorials/python/)

----
## Basics

Python, like all programming languages, have different data types so that your
system knows what type of data it is looking at. The common types are **int, float, string, list, and dictionary.** One thing that is different than many other forms of programming is that the data type is implicit to the definition of the variable. For instance. Python knows that ```a = 5``` is an int, ```b = 27.654``` is a float, and ```c = ['some', 'words', 'here', 6]``` is a list.

data types
auto casting (vs other languages)

floats/ints
strings
lists
dictionaries
arrays (np)
pandas DataFrames

loops

conditionals

----
## Important Packages
numpy
pandas
matplotlib
netCDF4

----
## Importing APIs and Docs
reading docs on apis
importing apis
using apis

----
## Object Oriented Programming
what is a class?
attributes
methods
inheritance
----
## Higher level stuff
List comprehension

----
## Examples
Copy and read csv
 - plot, modify time series data

Copy and read NetCDF
 - plot, mask, etc

### Sources
https://www.economist.com/graphic-detail/2018/07/26/python-is-becoming-the-worlds-most-popular-coding-language
